# Artifact One Narrative

## Briefly describe the artifact. What is it? When was it created?
The artifact is a full-stack SPA (Singular Page Application) developed during CS-465: Full Stack Development. Within the project, the SPA was built using the front-end framework Angular as a part of the MEAN stack. The objective of the SPA was to allow server-side operations to be conducted through more user-friendly means, with the ability to perform CRUD commands on an admin accessible webpage. CRUD commands were for the manipulation and viewing of trip data stored within a MongoDB database to continue compliance with the MEAN stack. 
## Justify the inclusion of the artifact in your ePortfolio. Why did you select this item? What specific components of the artifact showcase your skills and abilities in software development? How did the enhancement improve the artifact? What specific skills did you demonstrate in the enhancement?
The SPA artifact was chosen specifically because the project was incomplete due to conflicts with the Angular framework. The course provided a guide for the project, but there were some inconsistences in logic due to mismatched versions of Angular in the guide and the one used in development. Therefore, I wished to address the current logic errors during this capstone course and add a functional full-stack SPA to my ePortfolio. As for specific components, a full-stack web application contains a wide range of software development skills in both front and back end development. This includes the ability to develop in multiple languages such as HTML and JavaScript, designing and implementing databases, developing database management tools, designing user-friendly UI components, establishing RESTful APIs, and more. Other general skills include the ability to use and adapt different technologies to communicate with one another, and problem-solving capabilities to overcome the technical challenges of doing so. After completing the enhancment, the SPA can now perform its intended CRUD functions. These include adding, editing, and viewing data contained within a MongoDB database with a simple UI that provides enhanced readability. Skills demonstrated by this enhancement align with those shown by the artifact components. These include developing in multiple languages, designing and implementing databases, developing CRUD functions, designing user-friendly UI components, and establishing RESTful APIs.
## Reflect on the process of enhancing the artifact. What did you learn as you were creating it and improving it? What challenges did you face? How did you incorporate feedback as you made changes to the artifact? How was the artifact improved? Which course outcomes did you partially or fully meet with your enhancements? Which do you feel were not met?
While enhancing the artifact, I learned that besides the logic errors present within the code, there were also a few small mistakes of my own making in the original submission. Things like variable name inconsistencies or obscure definitions that needed to be cleaned up alongside the major functionality errors. These were not picked up as errors by the Visual Studio Code IDE being used for development, so I did not pick up on them before. But consistent code review has helped me correct these mistakes in the components I have conducted it on. Most of the challenges faced during enhancement were quickly remedied with some help online or through small tweaks to the code. The main challenge with enhancing this artifact was that I had to restart from the beginning and implement each component individually to get it to function properly. I was originally able to fix many errors present, but there was still underlying issues within the code's logic in places where the IDE could not detect and warn me about. So, I slowly added components back in one by one and tested them individually to ensure they were each in working order before moving on to the next. I was hesitant to add the security components back in as they caused the most issue with the program however. To ensure that I had something to present here, I focused on adding the main CRUD functions to the SPA instead. With that, this artifact is now capable of fulfilling it's original role as an easy to use tool to manage trip data for a vacation booking website. I would say that I have met the course outcome I originally selected when planning this enhancement. The chosen outcome being the fourth, which demonstrates the ability to use well-founded and innovative techniques, skills, and tools in computing practices for the purpose of implementing computer solutions that deliver value and accomplish industry-specific goals. This is because the artifact can now deliver upon its intended functions as a valuable piece of software through the incorporation of many computing tools, practices, and techniques. At the current stage of enhancement, different skills and tools have been utilized to implement solutions to the logic errors present with the components of the SPA. The project now has proper connection to the MongoDB database with a UI that allows users to add, edit, and view data. Unfortunately, the original artifact submission contained security components, including a login feature and authentication services. These were not included in the enhancment as the UI was obscured by it beforehand. The JSON webtoken generated for authentication at login never properly validated, which I believe caused an issue where it could not be read by the program to navigate to the main page of the SPA. To ensure that the main content of the SPA remains visible, I instead opted to leave the login function out until a time where it can be reimplemented.
## Running this Program
To run this program, each of the files included in this repository must be added under a new root directory folder. The name of this folder can be anything but the one used throughout the project's development was "travlr". Then the following software will need to be installed to get the code to run properly.
1. Node.js and Node Package Manager
2. MongoDB and MongoDBCompass
3. Postman
4. Angular Command Line Interface

Once installed, the program can be run from the Command Prompt or Windows PowerShell by changing directory to the root folder of the project and typing "npm start". This will start the server of the program and establish its connection to the MongoDB database on localhost:3000. Opening a second Command Prompt or Windows PowerShell window and changing directory to the "app_admin" folder under the project's root folder and typing "ng serve" will start the SPA on localhost:4200. Then opening a browser and entering the localhost:4200 url will navigate to the SPA to add, edit, and view trip data contained in the MongoDB database.
